feat: EVM emulator docs (#333)
matter-labs/zksync-docs: content/00.zksync-era/30.unique-features/40.evm-emulator/02.faq.md

---
title: Emulator FAQ
description: The following questions are related to usage of the EVM Bytecode Emulator.
---

#### Can I use default Foundry instead of Foundry-zksync?

> Yes. Although as gas logic on EraVM differs from the EVM, it's recommended to use the `--skip-simulation` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes. But for scripts execution (`forge script ...`) it's recommended to use the `--skip-simulation` flag, as gas logic on EraVM differs from the EVM and foundry can estimate gas incorrectly.
```

#### Can I use Hardhat without the `hardhat-zksync` plugin?
Yes, Hardhat works without ZKsync-specific plugins.

#### What is the EVM version used by the EVM Emulator?
The EVM emulator targets **Cancun**.

#### Given that on EraVM contract deployment is done via the `ContractDeployer`, how does deployment work using the EVM Emulator?

> You can deploy contracts just like on Ethereum (e.g., a transaction to `0x0` with the contract bytecode) and use tools like Hardhat

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy contracts just like on Ethereum (e.g., a transaction without field `to` and with the contract init code as calldata) and use tools like Hardhat
```

If you want to learn more, check [the protocol documentation](../../../zksync-protocol/contracts/evm-emulator/overview).

#### Are EVM-bytecode contracts and EraVM-bytecode contracts allowed to interact with each other transparently?
Contracts deployed with EVM bytecode can interact with contracts deployed with EraVM bytecode, **except for delegate calls**,
which are prohibited between EraVM and EVM bytecode contracts.

Find more details in [EraVM-EVM interactions](../../../zksync-protocol/contracts/evm-emulator/era-evm-interactions.md).

#### Will address derivation with regular `create` and `create2` be the same as on other EVM chains?
Yes.

#### Is the EVM emulator 100% compatible with EVM?
No. Although emulation covers most developers' needs, there are limitations due to the underlying EraVM, such as unsupported opcodes or gas differences.
Full EVM equivalence is expected with the next proving system in **2025**.

See [Limitations page in the protocol documentation](../../../zksync-protocol/contracts/evm-emulator/limitations).

#### What's the behavior of `block.gaslimit`? Does it return the batch limit or the transaction limit?

> It returns `1125899906842624n`, the batch limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It returns `1125899906842624n`. In practice this is meaningless value and should not be used.
```
